## Reading 3
### **Response**
<br/>

The first question I encountered in a discussion in Creative Computing, the first IMA class I’ve taken, was “How does Instagram make money?”. The correct answer was that it collects data from their users and uses that information to develop and improve the algorithms for advertising. In this process, the action of sending posts and the content in these posts become the fundament for the profitization of Instagram. In the talk “The Rise of Surveillance Capitalism”, Shoshana Zuboff mentions the same logic behind the profitization of tech giants. Our private human experience is seen as raw materials for the market dynamic. The data generated alongside with our activities are processed as behavioral data, which are used for developing artificial intelligence that makes predictions of actions in the future. These predictions are called “behavioural futures'' by Zuboff. This chain of making money by treating our private human experience as raw materials is surveillance capitalism. It shares the characteristic of privatizing properties with capitalism, while it is also different from capitalism in a way that it destabilizes our moral selves, undermines human autonomy, and challenges democracy.  

I once had an argument with my friend on how our privacy is intruded by tech giants. She held an opinion which contrasted to mine that she believed the algorithms developed by companies are based on the needs of the market. They exist because the potential of making money exists. So the fear and rejection of surveillance and the collection of personal data is the fear for the inequality of wealth that rich people are getting richer and contains resentment towards the rich. I think the problem is not that simple. In Zuboff’s talk, the problem with surveillance capitalism is that it challenges democracy by eroding the principles of individual sovereignty and creating the inequality of knowledge. This inequality will eventually lead to asymmetries of powers and we, as “users”, will gradually lose our power to command the social media. My opinion towards surveillance over our privacy comes from the fear of losing our power and decision rights. It partially coincides with Zuboff’s idea but since I was growing up under a different ideology and my country is more centralized and controlled by the government, I could not fully agree with her idea that the surveillance mainly exists in the private sector and it is driven by economic profits. I would say that surveillance is not one hundred percent a bad thing. For instance, the use of health code is an efficient tool during the pandemic (although it exists with the premise that individuals’ locations are tracked by the government). It is the uncertainty and the unknown that make collection of data extremely unacceptable. I believe that people should be educated and guaranteed the right to know on how surveillance impacts our life, to what extent the collection of data changes our life, and to have a more concrete and specific answer besides “invading our privacy”. Yes they have our data, but do you know how it impacts us in detail? This could be achieved in a more transparent and regulated system in which we can access how the companies and the government utilize our data.
