## Reading 5
### **Response**
<br/>

Among all the text and podcasts that we read and listened to this week, “The Daily The End of Privacy as we know it?” is the one that “creeped” me out the most. One detail mentioned by Kashmir Hill in the podcast left me a deep impression. When she asked a police officer to run a picture of her through Clearview’s app, the app first gave no results. Then within ten minutes, the officer received a phone call from Clearview asking why he was uploading a New York Times reporter’s photo.

Once again this podcast made me think about the importance of the transparency in the technology developed or employed by companies and law enforcement, and the insecurity risen among ordinary people towards the unclear intentions of developers of a certain technology. How do we know what “they” are doing with our data, which are generated from our privacy and our activities? Why are they able to profitize our data without acquiring the consent from the public first? Are we, as ordinary people, benefiting from a more efficient mechanism for combating criminals or are we involuntarily being controlled and manipulated? I saw a discussion on similar questions in “The Messy Truth About Social Credit” and the comments to this article. Although the social credit system provides easy and useful ways for businesses and individuals to avoid and be alert to 老赖 (laolai), it cannot be doubted that for now the system seems to be vague and some people, like me, do not understand or be aware of the existence of this system.

In addition, I saw a discussion of the dang’an system in the reading. I only know very little about the dang’an system because I went to an international high school where the dang’an system did not matter that much and later on went to study abroad. I have heard about the use of this system from my friends who go to college in China, but the range of what will be reported in the dang’an and what will not still seems obscure for me. For instance, one of my friends told me she was notified by her college advisor that her visit to the psychologist in her school and the diagnosis of her mental disease would be written in her dang’an, and it will affect her applications to the clubs in school and the student union, as well as her application to jobs in state-owned enterprises in the future, while some other friend told me that this is not the case in his school. This example, in addition to cause confusion for me on what will written in the dang’an, made me wonder whether a report on a private matter of an individual like this will invade the privacy of this individual and cause discrimination towards them.

One general question that I had about the social credit system and the dang’an system is whether the punishments really matched with people’s violations or discreditable behaviours. I did a quick research on the social credit system and found that in some cases the kids of discreditable people will face punishment as well. For example, these kids cannot attend the National Defense University as they fail the political examination (政审) because their parents are on the blacklist. In addition, they also cannot attend private schools that have higher costs than public schools because of the restrictions on high consumption on their parents. Although these punishments act efficiently for punishing people who are already on the blacklist and deterring people with potential discreditable behaviours, I wonder whether this kind of linking and bonding the kids with their parents is fair and equal for them.
