### Reading Response 1 ###
***

A year ago I read about the famous statement by communication theorist Marshall McLuhan, “the medium is the message”, in his book Understanding Media: The Extensions of Man. Originally, this statement refers to how the media, such as TV, determine people in how to perceive and process the messages carried by them. However,  even though data is not categorized as media, I couldn’t help to draw a subtle connection between this statement and the discussions of data in Critical Questions for Big Data and Data Humanism, The Revolution will be Visualized, as these two essays both address on how data and the visualization of data bring changes to the way people receive, analyze, and perceive information.

Authors for these two essays both mention the context of data and claim it as a very important aspect for understanding data. I think context refers to the background information of data: what the data is about, why the audience should care about the information conveyed by the data, and any other information that is hidden behind the numerical value of these data. We have to clarify under what circumstances these data are generated and collected, the types of these data, and the meanings that we assign to these data. To present unstructured data to the audience who are unfamiliar with the context will cause confusion and misinterpretation.

One example to demonstrate the importance of context is a research for the economic welfare across different cities in China that I have done last semester. I used data from the National Bureau of Statistics of China (NBS), including the unemployment rate, educational funds, real average wage of employed persons, and the number of health institutes in each city. I then combined these data to create a new index for measuring the welfare in each city. Surprisingly, my index shows that Tibet is one of the cities with the highest economic welfare, along with Beijing and Shanghai. This is a very counterintuitive result. When examining the data I used for this research, I found that they all include the funds from the government to each city. The very high economic welfare in Tibet is a result of the high government funds, and this result does not mean that Tibet is a highly economically developed city. In addition, the data that I used from NBS do not exclude variables such as the area of each city and the population in each city, so they are not weighted. Therefore, to compare the numeric values only would not lead to a correct conclusion of which city has the highest economic welfare and the highest living standard.

Authors of Critical Questions for Big Data and Data Humanism, Danah Boyd and Kate Crawford, discuss data from researchers’ perspectives, while Giorgia Lupi, in Data Humanism, The Revolution will be Visualized, is from a designer’s point of view. While Lupi focuses more on how to create personalized data visualization, Boyd and Crawford discuss data in a more academic way that involves both approval and criticism of Big Data. For instance, Critical Questions for Big Data discusses the ethical accountability for accessing data in the fifth provocation and they mention the divisions between scholars and companies due to the limited access to data, while these discussions do not appear in Lupi’s essay. If the authors for these two essays have a conversation, I think they might have disagreements on their attitudes towards data. For me, Lupi presents a more positive attitude that she suggests to embrace the imperfection and mistakes in human-made data. On the other hand, Boyd and Crawford show concerns about the potential problems in accessing data. Nonetheless, the two essays contain similar opinions as well. In both essays, authors mention the subjectivity of data. They both claim that capturing and analyzing data is a subjective process of adding filters to raw data, and data is interpreted before shown to the audience. I think this is a point that they would both agree on.
